.docodego/tools/README.md, before:

# Scoring Tools

Master index of all scoring tools. Each tool is generic — it
works on any markdown spec corpus without project-specific
knowledge. Each has a dedicated design document describing its
purpose, dimensions, scoring logic, and gate behavior.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Run any tool via the runner script (sources .env automatically)
.docodego/tools/run ics_scorer <spec-file>
.docodego/tools/run ccs_scorer --format json <spec-files...>

# Or set env vars manually
PYTHONPATH=.docodego/tools python -m ics_scorer <spec-file>
```

Configuration lives in `.docodego/tools/tools.env`:

```
PYTHONPATH=.docodego/tools
DOCODEGO_AUDITS=.docodego/cycle-01/audits
```

The runner script sources this file. Tools also auto-load
`DOCODEGO_AUDITS` via a built-in dotenv loader at startup.

## What Each Tool Answers

| Tool | Question |
|------|----------|
| **ICS** | Can a developer/AI build this feature from the spec alone, without guessing? |
| **CCS** | Can an AI/developer enforce this convention, or is it too vague to automate? |
| **SDS** | Has the spec author thought through security — threats, auth, inputs, defenses? |
| **CSG** | Do specs that share business rules, constants, and permissions actually agree? |
| **SHS** | Is the spec corpus structurally sound — linked, complete, and within limits? |
| **SCR** | Are the dependencies referenced in specs healthy, safe, and well-documented? |

## Tool Matrix

| # | Tool | Acronym | Status | Scope | Dimensions | Target Specs |
|---|------|---------|--------|-------|------------|--------------|
| 1 | [Intent Clarity Score](docs/ics.md) | ICS | Implemented | Single file | 4 x 25 | Behavioral + Foundation |
| 2 | [Convention Clarity Score](docs/ccs.md) | CCS | Implemented | Single file | 4 x 25 | Convention |
| 3 | [Security Design Score](docs/sds.md) | SDS | Implemented | Single file | 4 x 25 | Behavioral + Foundation |
| 4 | [Constraint Symmetry Guard](docs/csg.md) | CSG | Implemented | Directory | 4 x 25 | Behavioral |
| 5 | [Spec Health Score](docs/shs.md) | SHS | Implemented | Directory | 4 x 25 | All |
| 6 | [Supply Chain Radar](docs/scr.md) | SCR | Implemented | Directory | 40 + 25 + 20 + 15 | All |

## Shared Conventions

All tools share these properties:

- **Pure Python 3.10+ stdlib** — no pip dependencies
- **Gate logic:** zero-veto → threshold (default 60) → status bands
  (0–39 not ready, 40–59 under review, 60–79 approved, 80–100
  high-quality)
- **Band thresholds:** low 0–8, mid 9–18, high 19–25
- **Output formats:** `--format text` (ASCII progress bars) or
  `--format json` (structured, CI-friendly)
- **Audit output:** set `DOCODEGO_AUDITS=<dir>` (or pass
  `--audits <dir>`) to write `.audit.json` files mirroring the
  spec folder structure — multiple tools merge into one file
  per spec
- **Shared code:** `scoring_common/` package provides
  `DimensionResult`, audit I/O, and reporter helpers — each
  tool's reporter is a thin wrapper
- **Module layout:** `__init__.py`, `__main__.py`, `parser.py`,
  `scorer.py`, `anti_gaming.py`, `reporter.py`

## Two Scoring Modes

| Mode | Tools | Input | What it scores |
|------|-------|-------|---------------|
| Single-file | ICS, CCS, SDS | One or more `.md` files | Quality of individual specs |
| Directory | CSG, SHS, SCR | Spec directory | Consistency across the corpus |

## Audit Dashboard

Generate an interactive HTML report from audit JSON files:

```bash
# Generate dashboard (outputs to audits/dashboard.html)
.docodego/tools/run dashboard <audits-dir>

# Custom output path
.docodego/tools/run dashboard <audits-dir> report.html
```

The dashboard includes four tabs:

- **Overview** — summary cards (spec count, pass rate, issues)
  and tool-by-tool averages
- **Heatmap** — specs × tools grid with color-coded scores
- **Corpus** — directory-level scorer results (CSG, SHS, SCR)
- **Spec Details** — per-spec drill-down with filtering by
  group, pass/fail status, and text search

Self-contained HTML with custom CSS, dark-mode support via
`prefers-color-scheme`, and GSAP animations from jsDelivr CDN.
No build step required.

Commit message:

refactor(repo): use DOCODEGO_CYCLE env var and extract shared CLI args
Replace DOCODEGO_AUDITS with DOCODEGO_CYCLE — specs and audits are
now derived from a single cycle directory. Extract duplicated
--threshold/--format/--no-zero-veto/--audits args into
scoring_common/cli.py. Add threaded audit_all runner, raise SHS
line limits to 500/650 for prose specs, update all docs.

.docodego/tools/README.md, after:

# Scoring Tools

Master index of all scoring tools. Each tool is generic — it
works on any markdown spec corpus without project-specific
knowledge. Each has a dedicated design document describing its
purpose, dimensions, scoring logic, and gate behavior.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Run any tool via the runner script (sources .env automatically)
.docodego/tools/run ics_scorer <spec-file>
.docodego/tools/run ccs_scorer --format json <spec-files...>

# Or set env vars manually
PYTHONPATH=.docodego/tools python -m ics_scorer <spec-file>
```

Configuration lives in `.docodego/tools/tools.env`:

```
PYTHONPATH=.docodego/tools
DOCODEGO_CYCLE=.docodego/cycle-01
```

The runner script sources this file. Tools also auto-load
`DOCODEGO_CYCLE` via a built-in dotenv loader at startup.
Specs are read from `$DOCODEGO_CYCLE/output/specs/` and
audits are written to `$DOCODEGO_CYCLE/audits/`.

## What Each Tool Answers

| Tool | Question |
|------|----------|
| **ICS** | Can a developer/AI build this feature from the spec alone, without guessing? |
| **CCS** | Can an AI/developer enforce this convention, or is it too vague to automate? |
| **SDS** | Has the spec author thought through security — threats, auth, inputs, defenses? |
| **CSG** | Do specs that share business rules, constants, and permissions actually agree? |
| **SHS** | Is the spec corpus structurally sound — linked, complete, and within limits? |
| **SCR** | Are the dependencies referenced in specs healthy, safe, and well-documented? |

## Tool Matrix

| # | Tool | Acronym | Status | Scope | Dimensions | Target Specs |
|---|------|---------|--------|-------|------------|--------------|
| 1 | [Intent Clarity Score](docs/ics.md) | ICS | Implemented | Single file | 4 x 25 | Behavioral + Foundation |
| 2 | [Convention Clarity Score](docs/ccs.md) | CCS | Implemented | Single file | 4 x 25 | Convention |
| 3 | [Security Design Score](docs/sds.md) | SDS | Implemented | Single file | 4 x 25 | Behavioral + Foundation |
| 4 | [Constraint Symmetry Guard](docs/csg.md) | CSG | Implemented | Directory | 4 x 25 | Behavioral |
| 5 | [Spec Health Score](docs/shs.md) | SHS | Implemented | Directory | 4 x 25 | All |
| 6 | [Supply Chain Radar](docs/scr.md) | SCR | Implemented | Directory | 40 + 25 + 20 + 15 | All |

## Shared Conventions

All tools share these properties:

- **Pure Python 3.10+ stdlib** — no pip dependencies
- **Gate logic:** zero-veto → threshold (default 60) → status bands
  (0–39 not ready, 40–59 under review, 60–79 approved, 80–100
  high-quality)
- **Band thresholds:** low 0–8, mid 9–18, high 19–25
- **Output formats:** `--format text` (ASCII progress bars) or
  `--format json` (structured, CI-friendly)
- **Audit output:** set `DOCODEGO_CYCLE=<dir>` (audits go to
  `<dir>/audits/`) or pass `--audits <dir>` to write
  `.audit.json` files mirroring the spec folder structure —
  multiple tools merge into one file per spec
- **Shared code:** `scoring_common/` package provides
  `DimensionResult`, audit I/O, and reporter helpers — each
  tool's reporter is a thin wrapper
- **Module layout:** `__init__.py`, `__main__.py`, `parser.py`,
  `scorer.py`, `anti_gaming.py`, `reporter.py`

## Two Scoring Modes

| Mode | Tools | Input | What it scores |
|------|-------|-------|---------------|
| Single-file | ICS, CCS, SDS | One or more `.md` files | Quality of individual specs |
| Directory | CSG, SHS, SCR | Spec directory | Consistency across the corpus |

## Full Audit Run

Regenerate all audit JSONs, build the dashboard, and open it:

```bash
.docodego/tools/audit-all
```

This single-process runner uses threaded parallelism — per-file
scorers (ICS, CCS, SDS) run in parallel, then corpus scorers
(CSG, SHS, SCR) run in parallel, then the dashboard is built.
Reads `DOCODEGO_CYCLE` from `tools.env` to locate specs and
audits.

## Audit Dashboard

Generate an interactive HTML report from audit JSON files:

```bash
# Generate dashboard (outputs to audits/dashboard.html)
.docodego/tools/run dashboard <audits-dir>

# Custom output path
.docodego/tools/run dashboard <audits-dir> report.html
```

The dashboard includes four tabs:

- **Overview** — summary cards (spec count, pass rate, issues)
  and tool-by-tool averages
- **Heatmap** — specs × tools grid with color-coded scores
- **Corpus** — directory-level scorer results (CSG, SHS, SCR)
- **Spec Details** — per-spec drill-down with filtering by
  group, pass/fail status, and text search

Self-contained HTML with custom CSS, dark-mode support via
`prefers-color-scheme`, and GSAP animations from jsDelivr CDN.
No build step required.
